# Model description

## 1. Description of the cost of ownership

A Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is the total cost of owning an asset, from acquisition to disposal or resale. Its calculation takes into account all expenditure items generated by the ownership and use of the asset: purchase, resale, operating costs, maintenance, servicing, etc.
TCO is an indicator that provides a point of economic comparison between several assets. When it comes to investing, TCO analysis helps to determine which asset is the most economically advantageous over the entire period of ownership.
In the present document, the model provides annualized TCOs for the same functional unit for a given vehicle, the market structure being simplified into several heavy vehicle categories according to their architecture and tonnage. TCOs are obtained by calculating the annual cost of owning a vehicle, according to its engine and the use to which it is put.
The economic relevance of each powertrain depends in particular on the annual mileage covered, but also on assumptions of decreasing costs as a function of the technology described and energy prices.

## 2. Studied energies

In the remainder of this study, we will look at the following alternative powertrains:
- Diesel
- Liquid biofuels: HVO, B100
- Electricity
- Hydrogen (fuel cell)
- CNG and BioCNG

## 3. Breakdown of truck fleet into 8 categories

Here, road haulage is broken down into 6 families of heavy vehicles: these are known as vehicle types. These vehicle types are used to distinguish the different technical and usage characteristics of heavy-duty vehicles. They include
- light commercial vehicles (LCVs) =< 3.5 tonnes ;
- rigids under 7.5 tonnes;
- rigids in the range ]7.5t, 12t] ;
- rigids in the range ]12t, 16t];
- carriers in the interval ]16t, 19t];
- carriers in the interval ]19t, 26t];
- rigids of 26t and over ;
- Tractors (~ 44t).


# Methodology 

## 4. Study of the acquisition cost of fossil engines

### Diesel engines as the reference scenario

In order to provide an economic basis for comparison with alternative powertrains, the diesel engine, which is already a mature technology, is taken as the reference for the remainder of the work. The prices of the various trucks studied were discussed with stakeholders and have been taken as such. They have been adjusted for inflation to give a comparative figure in $€_{2024}$.
It will be assumed that the purchase price of combustion-powered trucks increases by 0.5% a year until 2040, to take into account the decline in economies of scale (diversification of engine production, in $€_{2024}$).

### Biofuel and CNG/BioCNG engines

Biofuels are a low-cost alternative to diesel, as they greatly reduce CO2 emissions both at the tailpipe and over the vehicle's lifetime. What's more, supply is already well established in the industry. We will therefore assume that the prices of fossil-powered vehicles remain stable close to the prices of the reference diesel powertrain.

|     Diesel price ratio    |     Lower limit    |     Upper limit    |     Mean    |
|--------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------|
|     Diesel               |     1                   |     1                   |     1                     |
|     B100/HVO             |     1                   |     1,10                |     1                     |
|     CNG/BioCNG          |     1,20                |     1,50                |     1,30                  |
